## Time-Series-Analysis-and-Forecasting-of-Food-Prices-in-Lebanon
### The COVID-19 pandemic, financial crisis, port explosion, and the Russia-Ukraine war gave birth to a food crisis in Lebanon. Food prices have been skyrocketing during the last couple of years while more than half of the population has plunged into poverty leading to the destruction of the middle class in Lebanon. The capstone project is aimed at forecasting the price of three different food items which are sugar, rice, and meat. R programming language is used to build forecasting models. Benchmarking models such as the Average method, Naïve method, Seasonal Naïve method, and Random Walk Forecasts are implemented and their predictive performance is evaluated based on their RMSE value. ARIMA models with different parameters and with/without Box-Cox transformation are implemented as well as Simple Exponential Smoothing, Holt’s Trend method (Damped & Undamped), Holt-Winters’ Seasonal method (Additive & Multiplicative), and their predictive performance are evaluated based on their AICc value. The best model to predict the price of sugar for the upcoming year is the ARIMA (1,1,2) with transformation since it had the lowest AICc (-0.41241). The best model to predict the price of rice for the upcoming year is the ARIMA (0,1,1) with transformation since it had the lowest AICc (-129.2665). The best model to predict the price of meat for the upcoming year is the seasonal ARIMA (0,1,0)(0,0,1)[12] with transformation since it had the lowest AICc (-1.580995). These models could be used by UNESCWA and WFP to provide a better understanding of how the price of certain food items will change in the future. Future work could include experimenting with different forecasting models such as ARIMA with Fourier series.
